---
layout: post
title: Just Do It
description: ''
date: '2011-01-18T16:21:00.000Z'
categories: []
keywords: []
slug: /just-do-it
---

No, this is not a Nike commercial. Apparently, the cloudiness of the day has also overshadowed my creativity. After last week’s post and having taken a dip in the Atlantic Ocean this past weekend, I think it’s time for a slight change of gears for this blog. I’m tired of feeling like my state of being is dictated by the season or weather (ironically, I _love_ precipitation). So, today, I mix things up a little.

By means of possibly disclosing too much, I’m tired of this depression I’ve been experiencing. I can’t tell if it’s caused by the bitter winter or just life itself, but its welcome has been thoroughly worn out. In the spirit of recognizing the brevity and value of life, it’s simply time to move on. Yes, I have difficulty with follow through, so the words “move on” sound great and excite me, but the implication of effort and work is just enough to give those two words a daunting and unsavory connotation in my mind. However, what is far stronger is the empowering I am coming to terms with that I have in the Spirit. I’m not condemned to stagnation in my own stew, if you will. Honestly, I don’t think it’s very flattering to God if His children are all just “hanging out” and not progressing in life.

“No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and He will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation He will also provide the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it.” Leave it to Bible Gateway to come to the rescue and provide fuel to my fire with 1 Corinthians 10:13. I think this passage really speaks for itself. I am not doomed to succumb to my sin. There is always a way out. I may not choose to see it, but the power of the Spirit working within me will always point me toward that exit and lead me to the victory that God desires. Really, our victory is His victory as it points in these times toward His glory, which is (take it or leave it) our ultimate purpose.

“Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus, the Founder and Perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before Him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.” (Hebrews 12:1–2) I constantly come back to this passage. I feel there is so much wrapped up in these simple and straightforward lines of scripture. I may regret later using this terminology, but this is a Truth bomb. BOOM! Right now, it beckons me to leave behind the tired and broken nature of yesterday and set my gaze forward, never looking back. “Move on!” I hear the Spirit say, “There is so much more for you ahead, but you’ll never get there carrying all the weight of your past.” So, like the ice off my car this morning, I’ll let it “all fall like a million pieces” (credit: Newsboys).

There we have it. We are always given an escape and we are called to escape and keep running like we stole something. But seriously, think about that last part. That’s kinda grace..? I’m not following that rabbit hole, but I’m leaving behind my sin of self-righteousness as there’s nothing I can do to “fix” my past transgressions. I invite you to join me in leaving the “dead to bury their own dead” and find a little enjoyment even in life’s storms. Just do it, I _dare_ you.