---
layout: post
title: Elected
description: ''
date: '2012-11-08T12:50:38.000Z'
categories: []
keywords: []
slug: /elected
---

**Elected.** I breathed a sigh of relief Tuesday night when I learned the election had been called by the major networks. Why? Not because “my” candidate had won, but because this season of bickering and mudslinging was over. Then I read about the multiple meltdowns that occurred publicly on twitter that day and later into the night and I became a little sad once more. But, you know what? The sun rose the next morning.

> \[Jesus\] is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities — all things were created through him and for him. — Colossians 1:15–16

**In control.** Yes, we as a country elected a man who may be more liberal than most conservative Christians would like, but the world has continued spinning, didn’t flip over on its axis, get swallowed into a black hole and hell didn’t (despite what the cooler temperatures might suggest) freeze over. Life continues today just as it did before this “most important” election. The people we elected were merely represented to national office. However, the true Sovereign reigns above them all, always has and always will. These people may have great influence even on the international scene, but even that is trumped by the fact that only God has rule over the planetary, even universal scene.

> First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. — 1 Timothy 2:1–2

**True civic duty.** Christians, friends, the passage above is our true civic duty. It’s more important than voting. We vote once a year, but we are called to pray for those elected officials _every day_. All. Officials. Paul in this letter makes no bones about political parties, nor does he even mention morality or faith. The exhortation is an imperative, therefore it’s asking for ongoing effort. I can’t tell you the last time I prayed even for the president, let alone the senators, representatives, etc. Do we have such little faith that we don’t believe God can have a hand in our politics?

> Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work, to speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show perfect courtesy toward all people. — Titus 3:1–2

From what little attention I intentionally paid to this election, I did not see a lot by which I was encouraged. In some cases, I don’t know who seemed more hateful, the Christians or the “heathens”. To be honest, I saw many people who didn’t believe God to be sovereign over the universe acting with more grace and composure than those who hold this belief. The fact is, if God is not bigger than the office of president of the United States, then who am I serving? If God is not bigger than one round of elections after so many others, then what is He bigger than? Let’s quit our bickering, moaning and griping. Instead, let’s pray for our _elected_.