---
layout: post
title: 'relationships'
description: ''
categories: []
keywords: []
date: '2023-06-04T00:47:15.000Z'
slug: /relationships
---
It’s odd to admit that my greatest fear has to do with relationships given what I do professionally. I feel both a fraud and vulnerable to say that I’m scared to acknowledge that I’m terribly afraid of hurting people which leads to them abandoning me—confirming that I am indeed unworthy of love and relationship at all. Those words sting to type because of their truth and sheer weight.<!--more-->
I prefer to protect myself from this seemingly inevitable outcome—and others, by extension—by keeping the monster inside hidden. For deep down, I’m convinced still that I am a monster.I am merely the sum of the worst things that I have ever done in my life. That feels like a pretty beastly, large monster by my recollection.
When I was about four, my dad taught me that relationships were like bank accounts. Lying, meanness, and bad things withdrew from the account which was apparently measured in trust. Only time and the absence of said withdrawals could deposit into the account. However, I never learned when relationships were in the proverbial black—*not* overdrawn.
Shame on me for continuing to carry around the crushing weight of this view of relationships. That’s where some of my most important work lies today—deconstructing the vestiges of this perverted view and constructing something more imaginative, human. So I hide, I lie, about who I see myself to be at my core. That person is destined for overdrawn relationship bank accounts, nothing more.
I carry around this heartbroken four-year-old for over thirty years. Cries for help, love, security—recognizing their basic humanity—I could not be bothered to attend. *This*, this is the monster inside, the internalized cry-it-out-model adult who raised me. I don’t blame the adults who raised me as this was the prevailing mode of parenting at the time, but I do mourn the time I have spent clinging onto this implicit message that this child should continue to cry it out until I’m dead and the time we could have had together.
Growing up learning that any “sin” was evidence I was destined for hell in a household that trended toward authoritarianism, I learned to lie. Always lie when I was caught doing something “bad” and lie even more when I was caught lying. Supposedly, consequences were worse for those who lied but I never noticed the difference between the two—do anything bad, get punished.
Confusingly, consequences were different for my sister. She could cry, say she was sorry, and sentences would be erased or at least significantly reduced. I tried this and wound up feeling punished more by the cold, incongruent response to what I’d observed of my sister.
In my adulthood, I became defensive when others pointed out my flaws. I default to this today at times. I was reminded of this just a few days ago. Remnants of that child who was mortally terrified all the time.
However, this time I’ve been able to see this part closer to real time. I’m better able to offer them compassion and understanding. Instead of suppressing the reaction and burying them further, I’m able to begin bringing this part out of the shadows of exile—towards responsibility and wholeness.
I want to be seen as an authentic person, but when it comes down to it I *need* to be seen as *looking like* an authentic person. I have my work cut out for me in owning the authentic me, much less presenting that to the world. Part of the challenge here is that I’ve revealed my authentic self to others only after presenting the façade and I’ve felt like they rejected the authentic self was rejected when the dissonance, the lie, what what others rejected.
I’m grateful for my coach and mentor who taught me that the façade is nothing less than a lie. Making myself small out of self-preservation, while perhaps well intentioned, does not serve anyone—particularly myself when the other person learns the truth and my worst fears are again realized. I can’t tell you the amount of pain I have needlessly caused myself repeating this pattern; yet, this pain, the pain I have caused myself and not others, has been necessary to get to this point. The pain I’ve caused others, well, that’s been unnecessary and I do regret it.
I recall playing lacrosse in fourth grade. I was a small kid for that age—I mean arguably the smallest on the team. The first few practices, I got the shit kicked out of me unequivocally.
Since I can remember, I’ve received messages that I wasn’t though enough. However, this was different as I was finally able to rise to the challenge. By mid season, I was one of the three hardest hitting kids on the team.
What I learned was that this world was dominate or be dominated. This was one of the most detrimental lessons I have ever had to unlearn. It fucks me up today. This sad and inhumane viewpoint that predominantly runs the society in which we live.
Dominate the narrative of who I am or the world will dominate and I will necessarily become some awful, evil person. There were other effects, yes, but I’ll save those for another post. Where I’ll focus today is in the realm of appearance and reputation.
In the last couple of years, I’ve put myself in situations because of this lying where my reputation has been torn to shreds. I tried to be someone I’m not for a couple of people, couldn’t maintain the charade, and as a last-ditch effort torpedoed both relationships to get myself out of the situation as cleanly as possible. Both breakups became more public as acquaintances and friends eventually learned of the events, and I lost a lot of people I had considered my community.
I fucked up. Massively. That’s what happens. However, what made these incidents different for me from the past was that I didn’t leap into defense of my perceived character; I didn’t try to defend the façade. I made a different mistake and chose to simply clam up, instead of acknowledging my faults and mistakes.
I see better today how this wasn’t a better approach, merely a different one. This approach was merely a different coat of paint on the original problem—I can bury the parts of me that feel unlovable by not talking about them, especially after I’ve fucked up and that is now public. In relationships, I understand, both parties have some responsibility and I can only claim mine.
In the last few days, I’ve realized that I can be honest about what has happened to me or I can be honest about who I am; I cannot do both. The latter scares me as I’ve shared here. Yet, I know the only gift I have to give this world is who I am. Thus, I cannot be an indirect object of existence.
You and I must be subjects within the story, viscerally human. I must learn to be fallible and not mistake that for purely evil. My goal is not to be some divine being sent to earth but a human radically comfortable with the totality of my humanity.
I got caught up in my younger years believing that my aim was divinity but I think that the great teachers came to teach us to embrace fully our humanity so that we might transcend lying about ourselves to save face. Perhaps they were trying to show us that authenticity and transparency about our humanity—the profane—was the only path to enlightenment or divinity.
So I leave you today a work in progress. As I’ve told you, I have my work cut out for me. I know that we’re doing the best we can, you and I, and some days it feels like it’s one step forward and two steps back. However, maybe every step is our unique step forward.