---
layout: post
title: 'lucifer'
description: ''
categories: []
keywords: []
date: '2023-05-29T11:19:31.000Z'
slug: /lucifer
---
Most of my life I’ve thought myself to be Lucifer. Sure, these days I look more like Jesus of the bible. However, I’m much more apt to believe myself—particularly in intimate relationships—to be a satan than a savior. Romantically speaking, I can say with confidence that most of my exes see me as the former. I can be whatever you prefer; yet, this has very little to do with the proverbial you I believe.<!--more-->

I’ve done an amount of reflecting this long weekend, and previously, and I know I’ve fucked up a lot—I won’t deny that fact. That’s something I need to and can own at this point; I’ve fucked up a lot. However, I also know that I introject, which means that I take the expressed ideas and thoughts of others and metabolize them as my understanding of who I truly am. Statements that people have made at raw, vulnerable moments I have accepted of myself as unquestionably true.

In intimate relationships—and friendships—I’ve fawned or bent myself into a small enough shape where I don’t have needs and negative events don’t proportionately affect me. I have a tendency of manipulation where I deny my needs in relationships—of all kinds—and trying to get those needs met met when situations inevitably arise.

Functionally, I assume that if I have needs, I’m human, or show signs of vulnerability—weakness, as I learned—I will hurt and deeply. Friends and intimate relationships will leave me eventually, I understand. Human relationships are still difficult for me to understand. No matter how long the relationship, I understand that relationships end.

Relationships ending is my starting point. I do whatever I can in a desperate attempt, still, to avoid and stay that end. I’m heartbroken again and again when I usher relationships to their tragic ends. And I perform this act again and again.

I’m afraid—in all honesty—to write this knowing that it will come off to some as purely narcissistic. Early in the separation before my divorce, my ex-wife was reading books about narcissism. Between the book I saw showing up in the house and the suggestion that I was mentally unwell, I was hugely fucked up for a while. I identify much of my dad’s behavior throughout my childhood as narcissistic. I’ve spent a good few counseling sessions and numerous minutes deathly terrified that I was a narcissist. Putting it mildly, being a narcissist is not something I take lightly merely after seeing a book on the dining room table.

People have told me on a few occasions that I used them in relationships. That’s enough to make a pattern, for sure. One person privately admitted to using me in reality, but the damage had already been done—to my knowledge, they have never repeated what they told me to the people who dropped me when the relationship ended. My closest friends have left me as they saw this pattern unfolding. They weren’t wrong to do so, though it hurt like a second divorce.

It’s all too alluring in my brain to believe that I am what I provide to others. I wonder if this wasn’t why Jesus fasted in the desert for forty days. Ridding himself of the need to be for others what he intuited they wanted from him. I am still exorcizing from myself this demon. I have lost track of the number of times that I have contorted myself into relationships and within existing relationships, hoping to manipulate a favorable outcome only to fail when I could no longer maintain the facade that I had no needs myself—sometimes this took the form of resentment.

I’ve fucked up a lot of people with this pattern. I hate that fact. Family, partners, friends; I was never able to admit to any of the involved parties that I could no longer maintain the facade and my realization would often be quite sudden. I’ve deeply hurt all of these people. I have believed that a failed relationship was always an indictment against me intrinsically. I wanted to save my loved ones from this version of me that I have not been able to accept of myself.

I’ve become countless different people in my life to fit what I thought were the desires and needs of my partners. I was on the verge once again this weekend of repeating this pattern. I’ll go so far as to say that I believe this was part of Lucifer’s sin. Lucifer knew he could give others what they wanted and believed that this made him most powerful. While it indeed made Lucifer powerful and threatened god’s dominion, I wonder if it doesn’t highlight the fallacy of overusing the fawn—charm—response? Lucifer became overly charming which threatened a father figure who ruled by threat of vengeance.

No, I won’t go further on that point as this dichotomy is beyond thin. Charm, sure, wins out over fear in many cases but that’s not where I’m going here. Have I manipulated people? Absolutely. Has it been conscious? Predominantly no. Has this manipulation been malevolent? In no way yes. My manipulation has been a learned act of survival.

Being an act of survival does not excuse a habit unexamined. This, this right here, is 1000% on me. Right here—if I may assert—is where I am your satan. However, satan is not an external being. No, I’m not going into the concept today of how I believe that God is Satan is God.

This is the codependent paradigm: I will be your savior until you see me as your satan. The difference between the two is a razor’s edge. Inevitably, I have set up myself to be one extreme or the other.

Sadly, I have chosen to believe the worst opinions others have of me as those I choose to ingest. Like junk food. I’ve had real work to do over the past several years and I’ve done some of it. I will continue to work on this part of me. I saw some of the remaining work I have this weekend. I also chose differently this weekend. That’s fucking growth.

Recognizing and pointing this out as growth is progress itself. This does not come without the sting of an old friend accusing me of less than above board behavior this weekend. That fucking sucks. There was a part of me that racked my brain to see how I might have tried to act poorly toward this person with whom I recently reconnected.

I tried to poke any hole in my recollection that might lead to my being a bad person to them. My attempts at poking holes only led to more questions—I couldn’t rationalize a way that I had unconsciously or subconsciously tried to make a dig at them. Honestly, this introspection took longer than it should have. My aim is to be aware, mindful, and humble these days. I was so ready to blame myself for something that did and does indeed appear manipulative from several angles.

I am not a bad person—as I’ve thought throughout most of my life. Honestly, I’ve believed some terrible things about myself in the past several years as I’ve carefully manicured and manipulated narratives for family, friends, and intimates. Honestly, I was scared of what their opinions dictated about me more so than what I thought I knew about myself to be true. Regardless of external opinions, and perhaps because of them, I have the opportunity to think better about myself and certainly do better. This is doubtlessly a better time to continue to change than any other.

To reiterate, I’ve fucked up a lot in my life. In catastrophic and massive ways. Much of this has been the result of making poor choices and sticking with them. The majority of these decisions—I strongly believe—have been the result of feeling overly vulnerable and an unwillingness to examine those feelings. Rather than feeling exposed, I chose “comfort” and found some way to hide what I was actually experiencing.

I’ve tried so hard to preserve the people that I care about and love from the parts of myself that I consider unlovable. I’ve hurt them—these beautiful humans—in ways that I wish never to have hurt my worst enemies. However, my attempts to save these people from these consequences have been rooted in self-preservation, hoping to present myself as greater than human, and I’ve deeply hurt a lot of people that I care about. There are not enough words to adequately express this; I accept that this will all be misunderstood.

Today, I’m less about hiding. I still hide what feels most exposing emotionally. I have a lot of work to do. While I may not highlight this fact, I will never deny its importance, much less its truth. This human is a consistent work in progress. I hope forever to be one.

To a large extent, each of us are who we believe ourselves to be. I can be Jesus—Yeshua—or Satan. Where I choose to focus my attention and energy is where I will trend, one side or the other. My terror that I might indeed be inherently evil will assuredly guarantee self-centered, poor behavior. The alternative will better ensure more expansive, other-centric, and life-giving behavior and sense of being.

Perhaps you and I are all God in that we create ourselves and our realities on a daily basis. Maybe not, but isn’t it worth believing that we are the best versions of ourselves we could be in case “choseness” is real? Fuck, isn’t being the best person you—each of us—could be just worth it? Surely it must be. Surely. Love you, friend.